Add CONTRIBUTING.md (#7968)
NixOS/nix: CONTRIBUTING.md

# Contributing to Nix

A big welcome and thank you for considering contributing to Nix! It's people like you that make it a reality for users in our community.

Reading and following these guidelines will help us make the contribution process easy and effective for everyone involved.
It also communicates that you agree to respect the time of the developers managing and developing these open source projects.
In return, we will reciprocate that respect by addressing your issue, assessing changes, and helping you finalize your pull requests.

> ## Code of conduct
> 
> We take our open source community seriously and hold ourselves and other contributors to high standards of communication.
> By participating and contributing to this project, you agree to uphold our [Code of conduct](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/2/1/code_of_conduct/).

Reviewer: We have [an initial CoC in the making](https://github.com/NixOS/rfcs/pull/114), but it's not merged yet. I wouldn't block this on the CoC, so let's remove it for now. We can always add it when it's there.

```suggestion
```

> ## Report a bug or suggest a feature

Reviewer: Reading the [RoR guide on feature requests](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/contributing_to_ruby_on_rails.html#what-about-feature-requests-questionmark), I think we should not actively encourage feature requests, but also not be as blunt and just close them away.

In my opinion, feature requests are somewhat a distraction, and while we need but haven't yet found a structured and predictably productive way to discuss them, there's also no need to further promote that ad hoc practice.

I suggest just not talking about feature suggestions at all, feels like the right middle ground until further notice.

```suggestion
## Report a bug
```

Would need fixups in list items following this

> 1. Search whether your bug or feature was already reported. You can do so on [the GitHub issue tracker of nixos/nix](https://github.com/NixOS/nix/issues).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Check on the [GitHub issue tracker](https://github.com/NixOS/nix/issues) if your bug was already reported.
```

This is much shorter.

2. If you were not able to find the bug or feature [open a new issue](https://github.com/NixOS/nix/issues/new/choose)

> 3. The issue template will guide you in what should be in an issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. The issue templates will guide you in specifying your issue.
```

I think this is more specific and still brief. It's weird to say "something should be in an issue", at least it should be "issue description".

>    The more complete the information, the more likely it can be found by others and the more useful it is in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The more complete the information you provide, the more likely it can be found by others and the more useful it is in the future.
```

>    Try to make sure reported bugs can be reproduced by other contributors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Make sure reported bugs can be reproduced easily.
```

4. Once submitted, do not expect issues to be picked up or solved right away.

>    The only way to ensure this, is to work on the issue yourself. See [Making changes to Nix](#making-changes-to-nix).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The only way to ensure this, is to [work on the issue yourself](#making-changes-to-nix).
```

## Report a security vulnerability

Check out the [security policy](https://github.com/NixOS/nix/security/policy).

## Making changes to Nix

> 1. Search for already existing pull requests that might cover the contribution you are about to make.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Check for [pull requests](https://github.com/NixOS/nix/pulls) that might already cover the contribution you are about to make.
```

>    There are many open pull requests that might already do what you intent to work on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   There are many open pull requests that might already do what you intent to work on.
   You can use [labels](https://github.com/NixOS/nix/labels) to filter for relevant topics.
```

2. Search for related issues that cover what you're going to work on. It could help to mention there that you will work on the issue.

> 3. Check [the manual](https://nixos.org/manual/nix/stable/contributing/hacking.html) for information on building Nix and running its tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Check the [Nix reference manual](https://nixos.org/manual/nix/unstable/contributing/hacking.html) for information on building Nix and running its tests.
```

We may want to link to unstable here, since this will be the most up-to-date version, and that's relevant for hacking.

Author: I was kind of hesitant to link to unstable, because it might be that contributors use an older version of Nix, but indeed makes sense to still use unstable, as changes like changes to the build system and test setup will likely update `hacking` documentation as well.

>    For contributions on the CLI, please check the manual page on [CLI guidelines](https://nixos.org/manual/nix/stable/contributing/cli-guideline.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   For contributions to the command line interface, please check the [CLI guidelines](https://nixos.org/manual/nix/unstable/contributing/cli-guideline.html).
```

Again, possibly unstable?

   
4. Make your changes!

> 5. [Create a pull request](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request) for your changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. [Create a pull request](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request) for your changes.
```

   * [Mark the pull request as draft](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/changing-the-stage-of-a-pull-request) if you're not done with the changes.
   * Make sure to have [a clean history of commits on your branch by using rebase](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-rebase-and-update-a-pull-request).

>    * Link related issues in your pull request to inform interested parties and future contributors about your change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Link related issues in your pull request to inform interested parties and future contributors about your change.
     If your pull request closes one or multiple issues, note that in the description using `Closes: #<number>`, as it will then happen automatically when your change is merged.
```

6. Do not expect your pull request to be reviewed immediately.

>    The core Nix developers are overwhelmed with notifications and reviewing other pull requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Nix maintainers follow a [structured process for reviews and design decisions](https://github.com/NixOS/nix/tree/master/maintainers#project-board-protocol), which may or may not prioritise your work.
```

No need for value judgements on how busy we are.

> 7. Ask other contributors for feedback and to shepherd your pull request into shape.
>    You can do so by opening a new topic on [Discourse in the Nix Development category](https://discourse.nixos.org/c/dev/nix/50).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. If you need additional feedback or help to getting pull request into shape, ask other contributors using [@mentions](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax#mentioning-people-and-teams).
```

Almost no one working on the code will look at Discourse, so it probably won't help. Also I wouldn't want that category to be flooded with "please review my PR" topics. Additionally, the discourse bot will make a comment every time someone links a PR on Discourse, and while often useful, this instruction would produce lots of unnecessary visual noise.

Author: I'm not sure about this one. Having it be posted on discourse was what helped me get feedback. I do agree it can create visual noise of used too often.

Mentioning a contributor is an ok mechanism, but which one do you pick? A new contributor will likely just check who worked on a file last time and mention that person. There is a good chance that is a core contributor, which won't help to mention.

Is there a method/process to find an existing contributor that isn't on the core team?

For nixpkgs there is also https://discourse.nixos.org/t/prs-ready-for-review/3032/1380, but i wouldn't want to disturb that process with Nix PRs. And, it isn't a very nice process 😅

Reviewer: These are three separate issues:
1. asking questions about the code and development
   
   This is what works best on Discourse, and this is what the Nix Category is for regarding this repo, and this is how you came here. It works, apparently, and I'd encourage it.

2. finding the right people to ask directly

   No obvious silver bullet, but git blame sounds like a good candidate. Yes, that's likely to turn out maintainers, but in the longer run this will diversify and already does.

3. asking for review and help on a given PR

   This should absolutely be done as @mentions, in place

Author: Thanks, I've updated and now also formatted the documentation. I'm hoping this is enough information for contributors to go on. It should already help a bit.

Let me know if you have any other suggestions or what I can do to get this reviewed further and/or merged.

## Making changes to the Nix manual

> The Nix manual is hosted on https://nixos.org/nix/manual.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Nix reference manual is hosted on https://nixos.org/manual/nix.
```

> The underlying source files are located in [doc/manual/src](doc/manual/src).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The underlying source files are located in [`doc/manual/src`](./doc/manual/src).
```

> You can [use GitHub to edit these files](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/working-with-files/managing-files/editing-files)

Reviewer: Meh, not sure about that. People will find out anyway, but I wouldn't exactly encourage them to. I agree though it's easier for many people to just do it via GitHub, and that lowers the barrier for contributions. I don't know.

Author: Indeed. I also mentioned this because of the markdown preview.

Maybe it is good to mention this is only for small changes, but refer to the hacking page in the manual for bigger changes?

Reviewer: Yes, sounds good.

Author: Done :+1:

I also squashes commits and rebased on master.
